.TH "Setup runcom" "1" 

.SH "Legend"
.SS "Brackets"
.IP \(em 4
\fBSquare\fP \fI[]\fP: optional parts: \fIW[orld]H[ealth]O[rganisation]\fP
.IP \(em 4
\fBAngular\fP \fI<>\fP: instructions to fill: \fI<a global organisation>\fP
.IP \(em 4
\fBCurly\fP, following a dollar \fI${}\fP: environment variable \fI${HOME}\fP
.IP \(em 4
\fBRound\fP, with bar separator: \fI(WHO|UNO)\fP = \fIWHO or UNO\fP

.SH "Requirements"
.SS "Knowledge"
.IP \(em 4
Linux shell commands. We shall try to be POSIX-compliant.
.IP \(em 4
Knowledge of Linux, "dot-files".
.IP \(em 4
super user (sudo) permissions (only for package installation)
Avoid use of \fBsudo\fP as much as possible.

.SS "Dependencies"
.IP \(em 4
A GNU/Linux distribution. I use https://fedoraproject.org \fBat\fP \fIFedora\fP.
.IP \(em 4
GNU https://www.gnu.org/software/coreutils/coreutils.html \fBat\fP \fIcoreutils\fP: Basic OS utilities.
.IP \(em 4
https://curl.se/ \fBat\fP \fIcurl\fP for proxy authentication.
.IP \(em 4
GNU https://www.gnu.org/software/stow/ \fBat\fP \fIstow\fP: dot-file management
.IP \(em 4
https://git-scm.com/ \fBat\fP \fIgit\fP: git it

For Alpine Linux, file:///etc/apk/repositories \fBat\fP \fIenable\fP the https://<mirror-server>/alpine/<version>/community \fBat\fP \fIcommunity repository\fP.
.IP \(em 4
If you are using Alpine, you \fBMUST\fP know how.

.SS "Bootstrap installation of dependencies"
.PP
For automated installation of dependencies,
run the ./setup/dependencies.sh \fBat\fP \fIdependencies script\fP with elevated privileges.
.RS
.nf
\fCcurl -sLf "https://pradyparanjpe.github.io/runcom/setup/dependencies.sh" | sudo sh
\fP
.fi
.RE

Inspecting scripts before running them (especially with \fIsudo\fP) is always a good idea.
The \fIdependencies\fP script is tangled (with automation wrappers) from the code below.
If you feel an urge to inspect it or if it fails,
install dependencies manually instead, that's all it does.

.SS "Guide for manual installation of dependencies."
.PP
Use suitable package manager (https://wiki.debian.org/Apt \fBat\fP \fIapt\fP|https://pkgs.alpinelinux.org/packages \fBat\fP \fIapk\fP|https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/fedora/latest/system-administrators-guide/package-management/DNF/ \fBat\fP \fIdnf\fP|https://archlinux.org/pacman/ \fBat\fP \fIpacman\fP|https://documentation.suse.com/smart/linux/html/concept-zypper/index.html \fBat\fP \fIzypper\fP)
to install coreutils, curl, git, stow.
It may be useful to update existing packages
and repository database before installing packages.

.IP \(em 4
dnf: Fedora, RockyLinux, RHEL, CentOS
.RS
.nf
\fCdnf -y update || return 65
dnf -y install coreutils curl git stow || return 66
\fP
.fi
.RE

.IP \(em 4
apk: Alpine Linux
.RS
.nf
\fCapk update || return 65
apk --virtual runcom add coreutils curl git stow || return 66
\fP
.fi
.RE

.IP \(em 4
apt: Debian, Ubuntu
.RS
.nf
\fCapt update || return 65
apt install -y coreutils curl git stow || return 66
\fP
.fi
.RE

.IP \(em 4
zypper: OpenSuSE, SuSE
.RS
.nf
\fCzypper ref || return 65
zypper -n install coreutils curl git stow || return 66
\fP
.fi
.RE

.IP \(em 4
pacman: Arch, Manjaro
.RS
.nf
\fCpacman --noconfirm -Syu coreutils curl git stow || return 65
\fP
.fi
.RE

.SH "Set-up"
.IP \(em 4
Affirm *Requirements \fBat\fP \fIrequirements\fP.
Do \fBNOT\fP use \fIsudo\fP during set-up.

.IP \(em 4
The next steps require you to delete all index.org \fBat\fP \fIstowed dotfiles\fP.
.IP \(em 4
We shall copy them in a directory named \fI${HOME}/OLD_CONFIG\fP before proceeding.
.IP \(em 4
Preserve this backup, you will need this during undoing set-up.
.IP \(em 4
You HAVE BEEN warned.

.SS "Bootstrap set-up using script"
.IP \(em 4
Set-up may be bootstrapped by running the ./setup/setup.sh \fBat\fP \fIsetup\fP script.

.RS
.nf
\fCcurl -sLf "https://pradyparanjpe.github.io/runcom/setup/setup.sh" | sh

\fP
.fi
.RE

Inspecting scripts before running them is generally a good idea.
The \fIset-up\fP script is tangled (with automation wrappers) from the code below.
If you feel an urge to inspect it or if it fails,
follow manual set-up instructions with modifications instead.

.SS "Guide for manual set-up."
.SS "Clone the repository and place at \fI${HOME}/.runcom\fP"
.RS
.nf
\fCgit clone --recurse-submodules "https://github.com/pradyparanjpe/runcom" "${HOME}/.runcom" || exit 1
\fP
.fi
.RE

.SS "Stow dot-files"
.IP \(em 4
\fIGNU stow\fP will create symlinked structure for all contents in \fI${HOME}/.runcom/dotfiles\fP in \fI${HOME}\fP.
.IP \(em 4
If \fIstow\fP finds a pre-existing directory, symlinks are created inside that directory.
.IP \(em 4
If \fIstow\fP finds a pre-existing file (non-directory), it throws error.
.RS
.TP
.ft I
Preserve 'current' configuration in a \fBvisible\fP folder in \fI${HOME}\fP
.ft
.RS
.nf
\fCpresence="${HOME}/OLD_CONFIG"
mkdir -p "${presence}"
cat << EOR >> "${presence}/README.md"
# RUNCOM backup
  This directory contains a backup of configuration that existed before runcom setup.
  Files in this directory may be merged to their respective place after inspection.
  I recommend that this directory should **NOT** be deleted.
  It will be required during un-doing the setup.
EOR
\fP
.fi
.RE
.RE

.TP
.ft I
Create directories, so that symlinks are made \fIinside\fP them.
.ft
.RS
.nf
\fCfor conf_mask in "${HOME}/.runcom/dotfiles/.config"/*; do
    if [ -d "${conf_mask}" ]; then
        hard_directory="${HOME}/.config/${conf_mask##*/}"
        if ! mkdir "${hard_directory}" 2>/dev/null; then
            mv "${hard_directory}" "${presence}/${hard_directory}"
            if ! mkdir "${hard_directory}" 2>/dev/null; then
                # still no luck
                printf "%s Couldn't be removed and backed up\n" "${hard_directory}"
                printf "This *shall* cause stow error\n"
            fi
        fi
    fi
done
mkdir -p "${HOME}/.config/pvt.d"
mkdir -p "${HOME}/.config/local.d"

for data_mask in "${HOME}/.runcom/dotfiles/.local/share"/*; do
    if [ -d "${conf_mask}" ]; then
        hard_directory="${HOME}/.local/share/${data_mask##*/}"
        if ! mkdir "${hard_directory}" 2>/dev/null; then
            mv "${hard_directory}" "${presence}/${hard_directory}"
            if ! mkdir "${hard_directory}" 2>/dev/null; then
                # still no luck
                printf "%s Couldn't be removed and backed up\n" "${hard_directory}"
                printf "This *shall* cause stow error\n"
            fi
        fi
    fi
done
unset hard_directory non_mt_msg
\fP
.fi
.RE
.RE

.TP
.ft I
Stow
.ft
.RS
.nf
\fCstow -vS -t "${HOME}" -d "${HOME}/.runcom" dotfiles
\fP
.fi
.RE
.RE

.SS "Set up Cargo (RUST) HOME"
.PP
Cargo (RUST) clutters \fI${HOME}\fP with its \fIdata\fP. Put it at the right place.
Cargo's binaries should be installed in \fI${XDG_DATA_HOME}/../bin\fP like python3.

.RS
.nf
\fCmove_cargo () {
    CARGO_HOME="${HOME}/.local/share/cargo"
    LOCAL_BIN="${HOME}/.local/bin"
    BAD_CARGO_HOME="${HOME}/.cargo"
    BAD_CARGO_BIN="${HOME}/.cargo/bin"
    if [ -d "${BAD_CARGO_HOME}" ] && [ ! -L "${BAD_CARGO_HOME}" ]; then
        mv -t "${CARGO_HOME}" "${BAD_CARGO_HOME}"
    fi
    if [ ! "$(readlink -f "${CARGO_HOME}/bin")" = "${LOCAL_BIN}" ]; then
        mv -t "${LOCAL_BIN}" "${CARGO_HOME}/bin"/* && \
            rmdir "${CARGO_HOME}/bin" && \
            ln -s "${LOCAL_BIN}" "${CARGO_HOME}/bin"
    fi
    export CARGO_HOME
    unset LOCAL_BIN BAD_CARGO_HOME BAD_CARGO_BIN
}

\fP
.fi
.RE


.SH "Undo Set-up"
Do \fBNOT\fP use \fIsudo\fP during unset.

.IP \(em 4
The next steps will require a directory containing 'old configuration files'.
.IP \(em 4
You HAD BEEN warned against deleting it during the set-up.

.SS "Bootstrap unset using script"
.IP \(em 4
Unset may be bootstrapped by running the ./setup/unset.sh \fBat\fP \fIunset\fP script.

.RS
.nf
\fCcurl -sLf "https://pradyparanjpe.github.io/runcom/setup/unset.sh" | sh

\fP
.fi
.RE

Inspecting scripts before running them is generally a good idea.
The \fIunset\fP script is tangled (with automation wrappers) from the code below.
If you feel an urge to inspect it or if it fails,
follow manual unset instructions with modifications instead.

.SS "Guide to manually undo set-up."
.SS "UnStow dot-files"
.IP \(em 4
Use \fIGNU stow\fP to unstow to un-linked structure for all contents in \fI${HOME}/.runcom/dotfiles\fP from \fI${HOME}\fP.
.RS
.TP
.ft I
UnStow
.ft
.RS
.nf
\fCstow -vp -t "${HOME}" -d "${HOME}/.runcom" -D dotfiles

\fP
.fi
.RE
.RE

.TP
.ft I
Restore directories form \fI${HOME}/OLD_CONFIG\fP
.ft
.PP
Replace the target directory \fI${1:\-${HOME}/OLD_CONFIG}\fP in following code block
with <path/to/old/config/directory>.
.RS
.nf
\fCfor conf_dir in "${1:-${HOME}/OLD_CONFIG}"/*; do
    cp -r "${conf_dir}" "${HOME}"/. || break
done

# shellcheck disable=SC2181
if [ $? -ne 0 ]; then
    printf "Restoration unsuccessful, copy backup files manually.\n"
else
    printf "Restoration successful, backup directory may be deleted.\n"
fi
\fP
.fi
.RE
.RE

.SS "Restore CARGO_HOME"
.PP
move \fI${XDG_DATA_HOME}/cargo\fP to "${HOME}/.cargo"
.RS
.nf
\fCmv "${XDG_DATA_HOME}/cargo" "${HOME}/.cargo"
\fP
.fi
.RE

.SS "Delete runcom"
.PP
Goodbye

.RS
.nf
\fCrm -rf "${RUNCOMDIR:-${HOME}/.runcom}" && printf "Goodbye ✋"
\fP
.fi
.RE

.SH "Personalization"
.SS "Local"
.IP \(em 4
All files that match the glob \fI${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:\-${HOME}/.config}/local.d/.*rc\fP are sourced.
.IP \(em 4
Do not synchronize this directory. This directory is only for the machine.
.IP \(em 4
To disable ui launch from \fI/dev/tty*\fP, set export environment variable \fIRUNCOM_LAUNCH_UI=false\fP

.SS "Synchronized"
.IP \(em 4
All files that match the glob \fI${XDG_CONFIG_HOME:\-${HOME}/.config}/pvt.d/.*rc\fP are sourced.
.IP \(em 4
Synchronize (stow) that directory using a local repository or by simply copying contents.

.IP \(em 4
\fBDO NOT\fP create this directory inside \fI${RUNCOMDIR}:\-${HOME}/.runcom}/.config\fP.
.IP \(em 4
\fBDO NOT\fP synchronize this directory using a public repository.
.IP \(em 4
\fBDO NOT\fP store passwords in this directory. For password management, use https://passwordstore.org \fBat\fP \fIpass\fP

.IP \(em 4
Remember to keep the repository updated.

.RS
.nf
\fCgit pull --recurse-submodules
\fP
.fi
.RE

.SS "Proxy settings"
.PP
Read set up for ./proxy_send.html \fBat\fP \fIproxy_send\fP.
